Gwenevere Abriel: Oh goody. I got you both together.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I have an idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're both here, but my ideas are far less important than what is coming up for you too.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me just do a quick check in. Is there anything kind of happening right now between you two that needs some clarification, some communication.
Ateeq Dean: I'm
Ateeq Dean: The past couple days we've been getting into so little fights is nothing terrible, but it's not fine.
Ateeq Dean: I'll just tell you, like exactly what happened on the first time. So we were standing by the back door and he grabbed me like
Ateeq Dean: Really hard. It wasn't intentional. He was just playing around and he didn't realize that it hurt me. And so I was still playing around, he, he, like ran to the other side of the house because he thought I was going to smack them or something and
Ateeq Dean: So I grabbed his taco shells that he likes. And I looked at him and I was still I was playing around, too. And I like crushed. Some of them.
Ateeq Dean: All of them I crush okay I crushed him. And I was still playing around with them. But you can see Brad away from me and
Ateeq Dean: Then things got really serious and he thought I did it to be like vindictive and in my head. I wasn't trying to be addictive. I guess it does seem like that, but I was still playing around with him.
Ateeq Dean: We got in a fight about that and then was the next word
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait, wait, wait, wait, let's stay with that for just a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me in a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you guys
Gwenevere Abriel: Scratch grab again constrain punch slap strangle anything going on with each other's
Gwenevere Abriel: Bodies.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how did it escalate afters crunch, crunch, crunch. How did it. Where do you go after crunch, crunch, crunch your teeth. What did you do after that.
Ateeq Dean: I was mad, mad look on my face and I was ignoring her after she was talking to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we got crushed taco shells and then he withdrew. Is that correct, that's how you see a two car.
Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: He withdrew and had angry face.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, it was like, are you kidding me, I'm just playing with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um, and did it get clarified.
Gwenevere Abriel: That would
Gwenevere Abriel: Get, get clarified.
Ateeq Dean: He. The reason most things to clarify, he left to go pick up
Ateeq Dean: After
Ateeq Dean: We talked about. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, not that one. Is this the more central one
Gwenevere Abriel: Or the next one. You're going to tell me really representative of a greater concern.
Ateeq Dean: It's just, no, it's, it's the same thing. It's just another example of the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Is it really so there's this play.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's play going on. And then one of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: either change the rules or some misinterpretation happens and the play is over.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now it's yeah not fun anymore.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, pretty much.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, sorry about my ears are acting up as usual. Okay so behind your back, your little sweetheart just pointed at you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Cara from your, your perspective.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were still in play mode and are you confused about how he could misinterpret
Ateeq Dean: No, I'm confused about that I could see how he could take it that way. It's just when I think back to it like I wasn't even thinking about it.
Ateeq Dean: I was just mad, and I wanted to get him back to, but not in a in a nice way. I was still being playful with him too, and I can see how it can be taken us me just being mad and wanting to break something, and
Ateeq Dean: We talked about that too. But I, I guess it was just miss it was misinterpreted that time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well wait, let's let's let's just see about this, and this might be just my ignorance.
Gwenevere Abriel: I I'm trying to think of I've ever been mad.
Gwenevere Abriel: But was also playing
Ateeq Dean: I wasn't
Ateeq Dean: I was not that I was mad, I would say, but I was trying to get him back, I guess, but not in a negative way.
Gwenevere Abriel: So okay, so it was the grab this. We tracked it all the way back. It's like he doesn't quite get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, track it all the way back. Okay.
Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now, a teak are you already aware that the grab and where it all started that it was actually
Gwenevere Abriel: Made me
Gwenevere Abriel: Aware that she had physically felt like that's more than just a playful Russell that when actually sad news to you already know.
Ateeq Dean: You see me play around
Ateeq Dean: Here and there, but it I think cuz you just have woken up to I caught her off guard. So when she woke up.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, and she was going outside. And when I grabbed her installed or a little bit
Ateeq Dean: Knowing her to ended her to
Gwenevere Abriel: So is this first you're realizing that right now. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you said you guys talked about it.
Talk about that it physically
Ateeq Dean: Did
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it just didn't sink in.
Ateeq Dean: I guess my
Gwenevere Abriel: Guess not. It's not something that surprised you he didn't hear that part.
Ateeq Dean: No, it doesn't surprise me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
Ateeq Dean: You know, reinvent stuff in his head about like things I tell, is he reordered reorient into his perspective and tells me. That's what I said. And I was like, No. I said, that's what you wanted me to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so those little basic things that I was teaching
Gwenevere Abriel: About I'm saying I statements and mirroring. This is when it would be pretty convenient to be using those instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: Taking something someone says, and then mixing in our own opinion and then feeding it back to them and saying, projecting and saying this is what you're thinking and feeling so this would be one of those times when we go really, really, really basic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry. Yeah, we use those. I feel statement. So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: That might have been one of those moments, KARA. WHEN YOU WHEN YOU SEE ON HIS you're like, like this, like you're like what just
Gwenevere Abriel: When you hear him do something. Let's say where it gets twisted around, you might say, I'm concerned that you're not hearing me that you're in your own feelings and you're in your own temperature
Gwenevere Abriel: Can take. Can you say back to me what I just said, can you do some
Gwenevere Abriel: Mary can be wearing new could speak up and ask for that specific skill.
Ateeq Dean: Right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Cara. That was for you.
Ateeq Dean: Oh, I'm sorry. I know I'm shocked you by the baby to like
Gwenevere Abriel: Take care of her. Let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's give her some snuggles
Ateeq Dean: Really
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you aware enough in the moment that that's happening that as you guys
Ateeq Dean: Know it's happening. But I don't want to keep furthering the conversation. I just want to get over it, if that's the way to get over it. I just let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will you tell me, is your way working or is it kind of left where he now makes up a story in his head about what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then it happened again and we're
Ateeq Dean: In the moment until it comes up again and then we're arguing about a past situation that we thought was resolved it wasn't really result.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so maybe if you say the investment is in the moment. It's a long term investment if we say, well, I'm going to sacrifice the convenience of right now and do this work now and and I get it, but it is efficient, I gotta tell you, because if you do this work now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It means it won't pop up again.
Gwenevere Abriel: It means it's done.
Ateeq Dean: I think my main problem with doing that. Is he is quick to anger.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, it's he gets mad quickly and also he jumps to 10 different conclusions about one thing that I said, and I don't find out all of these things that he's thinking in his head until
Ateeq Dean: We're in a really heated conversation. And he thought that the one thing I said that something completely different.
Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you guys look at how much actual time is spent in that recovering from an argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it really that much more time to do it this way. I'm inviting
Gwenevere Abriel: When you actually say
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what, let's do it one way, let's do the mirroring and let's do the I feel, what if you guys decided
Gwenevere Abriel: To commit to that.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but let's start with maybe carrot tell a teak your concerns about whether he can keep that commitment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And start
Gwenevere Abriel: Right there.
Ateeq Dean: And then
Gwenevere Abriel: go the other way around. So a teacher. I want you to really listen to Kara. I want you to listen to her concerns and try and mirror her concerns. So look at each other.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell him your concerns about his ability. Hey, I'm concerned about your ability to commit to it for the following. Keep it nice and short because remember we can't remember much when we're
Ateeq Dean: So,
Ateeq Dean: And my concern is
Ateeq Dean: As sticking to the guideline, though I feel safe associates.
Ateeq Dean: Because in the heat of the moment, it seems like everything just goes right
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Specific. Let's see. And that was really great. It was still a little bag.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's okay. You did great. I'm really good at making things really
Gwenevere Abriel: In
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember, so it'd be something like a teak
Gwenevere Abriel: I felt I'm making it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I felt scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: About
Gwenevere Abriel: Reminding about the I feel because I thought it would
Gwenevere Abriel: escalate the argument.
Ateeq Dean: That's actually perfect, that's exactly
Gwenevere Abriel: So in your out, you're going to find your own wording and you're wrong. When you look at him at but find your own truth. Use the I feel
Ateeq Dean: I feel
Ateeq Dean: apprehensive. Is that too big, too.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow, that's a nice one.
Ateeq Dean: I feel apprehensive about
Ateeq Dean: Bringing
Ateeq Dean: Trying to find the bravery.
Ateeq Dean: About I guess furthering our conversation getting deeper into our conversation because I'm afraid it will drag things out for longer than it needs to be done.
Ateeq Dean: So let me see what you're saying. Tara, you feel apprehensive to
Ateeq Dean: Know, I don't even know.
Ateeq Dean: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: A cousin of fear. By the way, it's just a low great fear.
Ateeq Dean: You can say fear.
Ateeq Dean: So,
Ateeq Dean: You're saying that you feel are pretty apprehensive.
Ateeq Dean: About bring up
Ateeq Dean: certain subjects when we're arguing because you feel like it'll drag it along.
Ateeq Dean: Me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Out. So yeah, that was pretty darn good. I think
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Other
Gwenevere Abriel: You did say, did I get that. Now ask her. Is there more
Ateeq Dean: Is there more
Ateeq Dean: Well,
Ateeq Dean: No, well,
Ateeq Dean: I mean, there's a lot of more but it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Just stay right in nassco. See if you can grab a little bit more right around this concept because you went specific with the feeling, but you went really vague around
Gwenevere Abriel: Who knows, does the cheek really know a deeper means in the moment. Does it to Helen was drugged out is, see if you can really get to, I'm afraid.
Ateeq Dean: Of it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I bring it up, dot, dot, dot, will happen. See if you can let him know what your concern is
Ateeq Dean: So I am afraid if I print stuff. I just feel to like we have unresolved stuff from the past, like maybe we
Ateeq Dean: Didn't have resolved, we kind of left it there for the sake of moving forward so afraid if we bring that up.
Ateeq Dean: Like if we bring up
Ateeq Dean: Not past stuff but like
Ateeq Dean: Feeling right now. Maybe caused by past stuff that it'll just dig up a bunch of
Shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah, don't be shy about using the words you guys really use. I know I looked at a square but I pass like a
Gwenevere Abriel: Like an eight year old sailor, so don't worry about
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep it real.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give it a give it a shot.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, so what you're saying is that you feel like
Ateeq Dean: Pretty much you feel the bit unfair bring up old stuff or be left in the past. And the reason you want to bring it up is because you feel like you're being up in the heat of the moment.
Ateeq Dean: You feel like will fight more and make things worse. But I feel like it gets the reason I feel it's not even things that happened in the past like it's
Ateeq Dean: Feelings, we had in the past. But the reason I don't want to bring it up is because I feel like it was unresolved at the time and maybe there's a little bit more feelings of resentment towards those past subjects and it'll just make things more heated
Ateeq Dean: So let me see, you're saying that you don't want to bring up things from the past because it'll bring up resentment and you feel like some of the stuff in the past was not resolved.
Ateeq Dean: And just don't bring it up at the heat of the moment because you feel like it'll make things worse than anything else. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really good job that was
Gwenevere Abriel: Great. And I almost jumped in and rescued him, but he caught it. That's a really complex thought
Ateeq Dean: That's really good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you understand what she was saying, I know you did a good job of saying it back, but you get that so so so from it from the outsider. I'm seeing
Gwenevere Abriel: Then why not address things in the moment, because look what's happening. They weren't resolved. You guys want it to be. So if we aren't talking about it for back to play again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then it's finished or not, they're not. And so I invite again. What if you guys commit
Gwenevere Abriel: Just one of you catches it
Gwenevere Abriel: That the same way you may have a commitment, maybe it's even unspoken I will never punch you in the face. Maybe you never said it but you may have a commitment there.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see where I'm going with this. I'm talking about a commitment as in
Gwenevere Abriel: If someone catches it. Whoever catches it first.
Gwenevere Abriel: We do full stop.
Ateeq Dean: And
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll do the better communication. We'll just we'll stop yelling if you even if it means I have to walk away for five minutes say
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll do it. But I need a break and then we let that person walk out for 510 minutes, you have to commit to come back to it and say, Okay, I'm ready. Let's do this mirroring. Let's talk about, I feel, let's do
Ateeq Dean: A couple of course we both feel heard and understood
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, that's a commitment. If you come back and you do that, time after time after time and you say to me, now it's still not working.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then we can fine tune that. But do you know in here. You're literally telling me.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not resolved so it's not working the way laser cut. Yeah, so
Ateeq Dean: I think that's might be like another kind of communication issue that we have, because in the moment. I want to talk about it right now. I want to get everything on the table right now.
Ateeq Dean: Either born even sometimes talk to me. He's like, I don't want to talk to you right now I want to talk about it, if that makes me more upset. I was like, why don't you want to fix this route you want to talk and
Ateeq Dean: He I have to wait like two minutes for him to get back to me. And at that time, I don't. I just want it to be over. And I don't feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're going to come back and
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to share
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're feeling with her, but I want to do a little psycho education for just a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: So sometimes people don't realize
Gwenevere Abriel: Men and women kind of do have different brains.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of
Gwenevere Abriel: Her grass, just because she's a woman is so much better at words her ability to grab a word quickly and to analyze a really complex interaction her ability to see systems and connections goes like this, see it. No, it doesn't.
Gwenevere Abriel: See it. No, it got it got a name for it. Whereas, if I'm a slower processor. I'm like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I see her angry face that can't be good huh oh I'm feeling on pissed. What about me like I'm moving at that speed if I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm like, What the heck is going on here. Now we have different brains. So, never mind that even a male and a female will process feelings words at a different rate.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's also concepts of just an inborn sort of ability to focus on things and to process in general. So you need those 10 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: And in those 10 minutes if you take them and you go outside and you do this self care and you do some reflection and you're like, Wait a minute. How am I feeling I'm breathing. What's going on for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do I actually feel
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to register anger probably first but then go underneath it and find out what is being threatened.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's your critique is to find out what's being threatened an image of yourself, someone doesn't see me in a light. I don't like that. So probably a common one.
Gwenevere Abriel: But your work is yes, you do have a right to take those 10 minutes you do
Gwenevere Abriel: And it'll be this agreement between YouTube where she says, Okay, fine. I have to tolerate the fact that you're going to go take those 10 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: And I will not give up on persevering and now let's talk about it. And that's maybe where that balance but but while you're gone. The work is going to be alright I'm showing up pissed off and angry what's underneath that, because most of us are motivated
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we're threatened by something either an image of herself or resource of other kind.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, well,
Ateeq Dean: When I had took those 10 minutes and I had left to pick up my prescription. I was wondering why I was mad, and it just took me to, you know, when I was young when I was a kid. If I acted up my dad was really strict so you know it's fine fight, you know, backed up. I got trouble.
Ateeq Dean: Either I got booked or he took something of mine and broken
Gwenevere Abriel: Up.
Here that
Ateeq Dean: Was the first time I've even telling her like that. Never you brought this up to her.
Ateeq Dean: Let's take this like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess I'll stop, stop, stop. I don't want to be that how that precious information. Turn to your sweetheart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hello. Yeah, let's cuz she's the more important person here than me. So she's gonna listen to your Josh what I realized when I went out.
Color
Ateeq Dean: Looking at, but it just took me to that time.
Ateeq Dean: When I was little, and I would act up and if I got in trouble. I will get worked. And then I would take something in mind and breaking
Gwenevere Abriel: Breaking heartbreaking.
Ateeq Dean: I just
Ateeq Dean: I don't, I know this is like a couple of things. But I know he has a lot of he's he's talked to me. I think more than he's ever talked to anybody about it.
Ateeq Dean: About issues with his childhood and stuff like I know he's character. I love his parents. It's hard for me to reconcile
Ateeq Dean: What he tells me he's happened in the past with who are noted to be now. And I know that's difficult for him to because his parents are very sweet.
Ateeq Dean: Fail they're helpless. At this point, honestly. They're both disabled, they're helpless people but
Ateeq Dean: He has if you're okay with. Yeah, but he has had he's he's going through abuse, they call it disciplined and everything and I I talked to him. And I think that's when he finally snapped, like, no, this isn't normal. It's not normal for someone to throw a full beer can. After child fact
Gwenevere Abriel: That this is no
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it's not.
Ateeq Dean: Realize that this was abuse. He thought this was Middle Eastern discipline and it's not this is if there was abuse.
Ateeq Dean: Yep. And I think he has a lot of unresolved issues from going. I mean, he was abused.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, there's no
Ateeq Dean: way to put it. He was abused.
Gwenevere Abriel: It sounds like physically and emotionally. It sounds both
Gwenevere Abriel: And and I'm really glad you have a partner that can hold that space for you. But what's an interesting thing. We can be each other's therapist and we can be each other's best friends, and we can be lover. We can be all kinds of really neat things
Gwenevere Abriel: But sometimes it's hard for us to be all those things all at once.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because she's also a woman.
Gwenevere Abriel: That might
Gwenevere Abriel: Get her feelings hurt. Maybe she doesn't want to be therapist right then, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we have to be your own therapist. So when you went off to the pharmacy and when it's not around. And you're going to see go and less and less because of
Gwenevere Abriel: The financial peace. We'll talk about it later. But that's where you get to remember the kind of things that you and I do, which is what's my underlying feeling and you did it a cheek. You went to
Gwenevere Abriel: This is old and you asked yourself maybe will How old is this and then. Wow. You're somebody crumpling something she says she did it to hurt me. This is the very I like my hard shell tacos and she
Gwenevere Abriel: She was her. Oh, and that big feeling that same heartache that pain from childhood came up
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's no way for you because you're not rehearsed at it to know what's going on in the moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Cara. The piece for you, right, if the agreement is a if the first person that catches it let's do our I feel stuff and then car if you're willing. If you can pull it off. And even if it benefits in grinding teeth. If you can say
Gwenevere Abriel: As much as I want to get this hashed out right now a cheap lunch, go take your 1015 minutes do your self reflection and let's come back because
Gwenevere Abriel: I really want to get through this. And so your sacrifice right is having to wait because you could do it now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay and I get that. So your generosity your big heartedness is seeing your husband.
Gwenevere Abriel: as not being able to process it as quickly, there is real science and I can go into that later about why he can't get to that information quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is okay. It's just that the hippocampus just has it stored in a way that it just doesn't have the right timestamp, it does it's missing pieces from all that cortisol, that was released at the time of the trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he may have a slower, in a sense, does it have anything to do with IQ. I want to make sure you guys get that has nothing to do like it means you asked me a math problem. I'm gonna be like, can I have a half hour, I'll get back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just a different is I, we have to do.
Ateeq Dean: With it. I told about to like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but let's come back to what we're doing. Come back to what we're doing. This is a big thing. If you guys decide to do this where you say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Or I'm going to give you those cars car. Hey, uh, take I'm gonna take your 10 minutes on not going to follow you in the room because he's got to have his own right.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't, we don't chase him in there. We let them have their space to figure out
Gwenevere Abriel: What the heck is going on for me because he hasn't he didn't have that childhood, where he had the right to process, what's going on. He was robbed at that now he gets time to think.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going on for me. And it's really nice. He is coming up with some really meaningful reflections, then guess what, when he comes back and he says, I feel isn't a lot more interesting to you, Kara to know your husband to really know why he would have such a strong reaction.
Ateeq Dean: We did you
Ateeq Dean: Know what I came back.
Well,
Ateeq Dean: We
Ateeq Dean: Get into it, people
Gwenevere Abriel: See, but that's it with. So if CAROL SAYS TO TAKE THIS IS THE the new agreement that you guys have not agreed on, you're gonna have to do this in the privacy of your own.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, quiet maybe write an agreement you signing some hardcore do it for 30 days we'll see if this lady's full of shit or not.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever you get my point. I'm being playful, but it's a big commitment because it's because what you want to do is call each other names and say, Batman. I get that. I know intensity
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is a big deal if you say if I catch it. So, Cara. You might catch it. First we do full stop. We both take our 10 minutes when we come back.
Gwenevere Abriel: In those whatever the time. Maybe it's 13 maybe it's 20. I don't know what you guys do and agree on, you write it, you sign it. You agree. You do it because there would be almost a betrayal to not keep that commitment. That's how big a deal. It is
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, because there's a lot at stake.
Gwenevere Abriel: So a teak if you go off and all you do is not think that's not the agreement that would be a time for you to go underneath the irritability and anger go inside. What's my underlying feeling. Oh, I'm sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Weird. Where's that come from. And then I think you know what I'm going to tell, I'm going to tell, Karen. The next 10 minutes, I'm going to say, you know what, when you didn't put
Gwenevere Abriel: The baby in a blanket. You know what happened to me. I got no I got mad at you. But you know what, I'm sad and it reminded me of how I was left in the cold and
Gwenevere Abriel: I think this is really old. Can you imagine the direction of a conversation if we are doing it from a heartfelt way versus knows you're wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're wrong. No, you're wrong, you're wrong. You don't care about me know you don't care about me. I mean, it's a completely different conversation when we're talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Underlying underlying purge
Ateeq Dean: And I mean she even said, you know, tacos. We can go buy some more. I'm sorry I did that. But I even told me it wasn't about the tacos.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tacos.
Ateeq Dean: I didn't know what the time, but I also feel like when he does go to self. He has a tendency to overthink
Ateeq Dean: And I don't find out quick
Ateeq Dean: Because tell her what you told me about why you
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm.
Ateeq Dean: The underlying about Lauren
Gwenevere Abriel: Also, the second argument, is this the second one.
Ateeq Dean: Knows the first one I don't know what's this
Gwenevere Abriel: This was the I woke up.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got grabbed that was this this first one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I you just woken up
Ateeq Dean: Okay, I don't. Okay, I clearly don't recall exactly which one this was
Ateeq Dean: Okay. The reason he did get upset. It might have been the second one.
Ateeq Dean: It was the second one, and it was, it has nothing to do. Oh, I thought it
Gwenevere Abriel: Was Laura. Laura character.
Ateeq Dean: Max conference.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, yeah, but it wasn't even more. I
Ateeq Dean: Remember, no cheating.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cheating
Ateeq Dean: It was
Ateeq Dean: It wasn't about
Ateeq Dean: That stuff you mean there's nothing like that you are willing to tell me that. Well, you're saying I was telling you that if I end up your blouse or something you can you see me and stuff and you like why would you bring that up and I said I was telling you what you want it to be.
Ateeq Dean: Cheating
Ateeq Dean: I thought that was this time with that before. That was before. Okay, so these are a couple things. This is
Ateeq Dean: He thinks a lot. He has he does have past issues. Obviously we all do, and his first girlfriend like his first love, whatever was there were really young. She was with her for eight years and she
Ateeq Dean: Had a very difficult time in his life, his cousin had just died in his arms of an overdose, like it was a very difficult time for him.
Ateeq Dean: I'm like what a couple months, maybe a month or two after that happened three weeks, three weeks. Okay, so, not even a month after that happened she left him to be with somebody else.
Ateeq Dean: Ouch. So he holds a lot of I would say resentment in her in his heart for what happened. It's unresolved and
Ateeq Dean: He I went, was this week, or I don't know it's come up a couple times, but he's I guess afraid that I'll just leave him or go, just go cheat on him.
Ateeq Dean: He treats me really good I treated him, but he had no idea she was doing that. Like he he didn't know. So he thinks that it could just happen at any time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me see something
Gwenevere Abriel: We have about 15 minutes I
Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to think about
Gwenevere Abriel: What you want Carl to understand really get into a close your eyes really be with this question. Look, these are a precious 15 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to really get in touch with. If I could have Carol understand something about me and I don't think she understands just really get in touch with it first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does she know a fear. Does she know apprehension. Maybe you have that word. Does she know
Gwenevere Abriel: Anger what sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: being left alone loneliness betrayal. What is it Boy Wonder if she really knows this about me how strongly I feel about it. See if you can find it.
Ateeq Dean: About me
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so think if you could have car understand something about you today.
Gwenevere Abriel: To you.
Ateeq Dean: What I want her to know today is that I love her. I'm happy I thought
Gwenevere Abriel: You're okay. You're so concrete it's normally. She's like, she said, How am I suppose. Um, so yeah. So if it's, if you have it, then you, you have it in your head. So yes, do tell her. Instead, I'm not as important as telling her
Ateeq Dean: I just want to know that I love you and I'm happy with you. And I was like, this might have been here.
Ateeq Dean: I just want you to be happy. Take your daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on, hold on, let's take
Ateeq Dean: You far deep
Gwenevere Abriel: But we're going to gossip in front of her for a second. So she couldn't stay there and listen so she can hear our gossip. But you and I are talking to tape so take you between you and I. What is it that you want her to know
Ateeq Dean: That I'm here for her.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's something, stay with me. There's something about the dynamics between you two that you don't already know she knows that that you are there for her.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder how that has come about that you think she don't you
Ateeq Dean: Think I doubt myself. That's not her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so maybe let's say there instead. That's fine. This out
Gwenevere Abriel: A little something about if something happens to me. So that's the piece. I'm a little. She's like, Yeah, yeah, I know you love me. I know you want me to be happy. But there's a second part. Got a little confusing. So I want to understand
Gwenevere Abriel: It could have been the tele health and I didn't hear it correctly.
Gwenevere Abriel: If something happens to you.
Ateeq Dean: Well know I've been thinking about you know what's going on. Lady that stuff. I work in the medical field, you know, so
Ateeq Dean: Now we're taking in patients from the hospital.
Ateeq Dean: Or
Ateeq Dean: I told her, like, we wouldn't talk about any of this stuff, but it goes through my mind it at work, a lot of people bring it up to me, so I'm over there talking to people, you know,
Ateeq Dean: I work a lot of people are scared. She doesn't really go out to the public. I still work in the public and I talked to people that are front liners with me and
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, that's all context that you can hold in your
Gwenevere Abriel: Your mind you have your reason that's your reason, hold on to it, but I don't need to hear that you
Ateeq Dean: Really didn't want to bring that up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you're okay, you're okay. Okay. Come back, come back somewhere in the sweetheart. I'm afraid that if something happens to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's where I think something important is going on. I can't quite put my finger on it. What do you want card understand
What
Gwenevere Abriel: Does she doesn't already understand. She doesn't
Ateeq Dean: Well, I think it's me that doubts myself.
Ateeq Dean: There was another conversation we had the other day and I told her, like, you know, if I was to lose my job. And doesn't that would you be mean to me.
Ateeq Dean: I'm how
Ateeq Dean: Would you treat me bad he said before to that he was afraid that I will leave him if he lost his job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. That's the one.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. Okay. So take a deep breath taking, I want you to look at her, and that's where you go, it's going to sound will do some rehearsal. So, I am afraid,
Ateeq Dean: Then
Gwenevere Abriel: I lose my job.
Gwenevere Abriel: You will do this, this, this, you'll be mean. And let's let's be specific. I'm afraid you'll
Gwenevere Abriel: Be being mean like punished me like my dad did. I'm afraid you and yell at me, I'm afraid to criticize me. Let's be specific.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so turn toward her. Now once you turn toward her as a really different deal it's going to feel more intense because this is just me and there's no love on the line with me. Okay. So take a deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just know that it's intense because of your history. Okay. But that's not happening right now she's here. She loves you.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, I need to drop
Ateeq Dean: My mouth guard right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, me too. You go grab one. Oh, you've got yours. Lucky you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we'll use our structure because their safety in that predictability. It's unlikely that we will offend that we will threaten if we say I feel
Ateeq Dean: I'm afraid that if I lose my job that you will leave me you'll be mean to me and you will love me.
Ateeq Dean: And
Ateeq Dean: That's why.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on, hold on.
Gwenevere Abriel: You will leave me, you will be mean.
Gwenevere Abriel: What else
Ateeq Dean: And you won't let me know more
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So your job, a career is to mirror that back. And if you want to go next level you want to try the validation stuff which is next level stuff where we pull in his
Gwenevere Abriel: History
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you say you know what, that makes sense that you would feel that way as your father treated you that way you see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We say more, sweetheart.
Gwenevere Abriel: That makes sense. It's more than a mirror. This is where we tell our sweetheart, you're not crazy. I get it.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So look at each other. Okay, so
Ateeq Dean: Your job that we need to
Ateeq Dean: Meet you and I know
Ateeq Dean: You didn't shoot general before
We know
Ateeq Dean: Anything because you could provide for her.
Gwenevere Abriel: This
Ateeq Dean: Afternoon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so
Ateeq Dean: After Awesome job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Chat. Make sure take this is your chance to really be clear, does she get what you were feeling. Does she really
Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Ateeq Dean: I knew the information like I had all the pieces and stuff but I hadn't put it together like
Ateeq Dean: Into weird. We talked about it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not something
Gwenevere Abriel: We often times, right, our emotions are what motivated us to argue motivate us to ask for the things we want, but they also can downplay they can shut us down. This is too big. I never done it before. I'm not deserving. Now I How dare I asked for it. Now it can really shut us down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you guys have this this marriage that and I get the piece of paper might be missing, but as a marriage doesn't matter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember my mindset about why people come together is that we do. He'll that that interestingly enough Kyra you your normal style.
Gwenevere Abriel: Might be exactly what it take needs because you have this strong personality, because you might play like you know exactly what's going to get his button. You might go grab it and try and you know get his favorite shirt and be like, I'm going to tear it
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that might come natural just to be playful. It's the very thing that's going to scare him the most
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the very thing that he needs to meet and hold on himself. Stay
Gwenevere Abriel: In love
Gwenevere Abriel: And have a different experience than he did when he was a kid, where he could not speak.
Gwenevere Abriel: You gotta be able to say that that's unacceptable and maybe he won't say it in a beautiful, elegant way but he might completely be like
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I'm completely freaking out. I have to go for 10 minutes and we gotta let him go.
Gwenevere Abriel: With me. Yes. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think
Ateeq Dean: No, I think having a daughter now having his own child has a lot of this stuff up that maybe he buried
Ateeq Dean: And didn't think about before, and now he has all these experiences with her. And it's kind of drifting off the past
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: We tried to push, there were
Gwenevere Abriel: Some lovely Yes Where once you could say, well, I don't need to look at my own vulnerability on my tough guy I'll just, I'll just be an earner and this is who I am now when you have to
Gwenevere Abriel: feel empathy for your little fragile daughter. Now you can see yourself out here too, and it is it's it's it's unsettling.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does mean a teak that you're going to grow.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to grow into this man that knows himself that won't be caught off guard. And all of a sudden popping off for no reason. You're going to know yourself, you will be
Gwenevere Abriel: MORE EMPOWERED
Gwenevere Abriel: It does bring strength. This stuff that we're talking about this is, this isn't for a quote unquote week. This is a hard thing to do for anyone, doesn't matter the gender.
Gwenevere Abriel: Being with your own feelings and your own memories of vulnerability of being three and four and five and six and 10 and 15 and being helpless.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are hard things to sit with and it's mostly why people went to drugs and alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because they couldn't sit with them. So take pride to take that even the few minutes that you do sit with them and you don't run to grab a mood altering substance and draw the alcohol take pride in it. This is hard stuff to do.
Ateeq Dean: I think a lot of the stuff too is coming up because we talked about how we want to raise her, it will be wanting to do in the future, and it
Ateeq Dean: Brings up past memories of what happened to him, like I was telling him, we were talking about it. We've been talking about it a lot, but the past week, I was just telling her
Ateeq Dean: I don't want to be telling her no all the time. Instead, I want to redirect her into the right things to do. Once I just know don't do that is I tell her A better way to do it.
Ateeq Dean: If she does something that we don't like to sit her down and explain and not just get mad right away and center the timeout or whatever and
Ateeq Dean: It was brought up to with him that that he was just told no, don't do that. The punishment and he didn't understand.
Ateeq Dean: What the punishment was for. So I think as we talk more about how we want to raise our daughter, a lot of the stuff a lot of unresolved childhood stuff trauma really is coming up for him. And I think it's just
Ateeq Dean: It's difficult to deal with it. It's childhood versus difficult to deal with.
Gwenevere Abriel: So a teak
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you're going to have a conversation with your insurance provider.
Gwenevere Abriel: The work that you and I have done. We haven't gone deep into the trauma resolution and desensitization. You can get that for me, you can be doing that, but it does ask that baby's not with you that you're going to have to
Gwenevere Abriel: Care with Wyatt and so that I can either do em, Dr. I can do empty chair. I can do inner child work. This has a but talk the way we're doing right now, which is cognitive behavioral stuff. It's fantastic for today. Nothing beats it role play outstanding.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: We got to get to trauma. We got to bypass all chitty chat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because sometimes our trauma was pre verbal
Gwenevere Abriel: We didn't even have the words for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's so old.
Gwenevere Abriel: All we know is the feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: And I've got to be able to reprocess that history with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't want you to let go. If you can find any possible way even if we meet once a month.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you and I can do some trauma resolution work.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll pull up the doctor, I can bring Dr. I've already talked with her about maybe bringing Dr brielle in to our session, maybe once a month. See if you can budget that and we will
Gwenevere Abriel: Target. We want to couples work for a few months. We're going to target.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some of those behaviors. Some of the early trauma that still getting in the way, where probably when you see it is you're getting angry and then you reflect back and you're like, good grief. Why did I act so strongly about something, why did I do that so
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would love to work with you right in there around that trauma history so that you aren't is activated the way you are, and you
Gwenevere Abriel: So give it some thought. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. I think your next day is something like
Gwenevere Abriel: When are you meeting with them 21
Ateeq Dean: I me again.
Ateeq Dean: Good Friday.
Ateeq Dean: Is what he wanted me to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, your, your insurance company is not the
prettiest
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's Monday from the right a little pencil note here. So I'll say, I'll say teak
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you already have written down. What you're going to ask because it can be intimidating when we're talking
Ateeq Dean: To me because of
Ateeq Dean: You know what's going on. Now they can just give me a little bit of an extension and I wanted that I'm in in in treatment right now and I'm doing well. And you know I need more time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you've got
Gwenevere Abriel: You got to have extension.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then how much is your copay with the insurance that you have
Gwenevere Abriel: Zero. So you're paying for. I don't even know how much pride charges to be honest with you.
Ateeq Dean: This for the woodwork with me. I've had the insurance that we both used to work at the same place I've had insurance there.
Ateeq Dean: During my pregnancy and the co pays were super high and the price was super high so I don't even know if we'll be able to, like, make it by read wise and stuff. If he does get the insurance from work. It's like
Ateeq Dean: About $400 a month for basically nothing. Anyway, I think there is some ways for us to get his insurance extended
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you so what I'm
Ateeq Dean: Going to be the first step I'm going to look into that with him because he's so great with computers. But I'm going to look into that with him. So that'll be our first step if nothing else will will try the other way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay. I like it. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I got it written down here. And so your last group A teak. Are you coming in on Monday.
Ateeq Dean: No, it's going to be Friday this Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh this your last one is going to be. Oh, that's right. I remember that. Okay, so last week, last here and we'll just hope that that's not the case.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then maybe we maybe you could text me or email me on the 20th and see what you heard
Gwenevere Abriel: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well, I will give it some more thought and Kara. It sounds like you have some ideas about how to make this appeal so that they can say yes to. You've got some ideas about how to get them to say yes. I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: Even what an extension of three months. What do you think they might be willing to do
Ateeq Dean: I think they would do that. They usually renew for six months. So I think we might be able to get that
Gwenevere Abriel: That might be nice.
Ateeq Dean: That would be perfect to get everything for him like tapered off and hopefully it's expensive. He won't even need it. I've been doing really well.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many milligrams. So you out now.
Live
Ateeq Dean: What are the five and a half.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You and the doctor might talk about aggressively tapering
Ateeq Dean: Which
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to need more contact with them and aggressively would probably I'm this is outside my lane.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it would probably be where there's not a lot of time when you're feeling good, because normally we like two weeks of
Gwenevere Abriel: Back to my normal if you want to hurry this along it does put your recovery.
Gwenevere Abriel: In some high risk space because you don't have all the new skills trauma isn't work through and your first size. Still, I want to use. So that's the problem right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why we want this nice slow taper. But this is your choice. This is your few and your family, work in this this program together.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I get it, but just know that it does put you at risk, and it would just mean there's not a lot of days where you get to feel good, the taper maybe you'd wait one or two days of, oh, I'm back to my normal self. I'm going to take over again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I feel good. I feel good for three days. OK, and now I'm tapering again. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, good. So it wouldn't be two weeks, you'd be rushing it along but
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want it for you. I, I watched you and I think you are better slow
Gwenevere Abriel: So I have your you're my client, right, you're, you're, what I want to succeed in this process.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you to have things that are replacing what was once the escape route of substance abuse or maybe even a gambling or something i want i want or more of these other healthy skills to take its place.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got to meet with you and talk with you and get those things in there so
Ateeq Dean: If I think for us to figure it out. He is doing so good. Like he's he's more introspective now than I've ever seen. And he brings up stuff, but that I would expect him to like
Ateeq Dean: Actually consider and things that you've brought up to him. He's like, this is what she told me, and it just it he still surprises me when I brought up the reptilian side of my mind.
Ateeq Dean: He brought it up to, like, how do you know about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: A real thing or yes it's the oldest part of our brain, the one that knows itself as a fight and and sort of that flee response that's very old. And that ain't going
Anywhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: Part of our brain, it's kept us alive.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so we didn't get eaten.
Ateeq Dean: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, my dear, is I'm hoping to get a really positive text from you on Monday. I hope we get it, but either way it goes. I will see you on Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Karen get to see you often
Ateeq Dean: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So glad you're here today. Why don't you guys play with the idea of sitting down with paper and pen. What would commitment look like at least even for a little while.
Ateeq Dean: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well you committed to. I feel statements to mirroring one person gets it. We all get a 10 minute or whatever the minute is break and we absolutely come back after that.
10 minutes 10
Gwenevere Abriel: Minutes, we will come back. Okay. All right. I will see you soon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bye.
Bye.